>> Will: All right, here we go.
Michael, take it away.
Line one, what do we do, my friend?
>> Michael: We're declaring a new
function called userCreator.
>> Will: Talk really, really slowly,
Michael, really,
really slowly while I erase my board.
>> Michael: So we're declaring a new
function called userCreator and
accepting arguments of name and score.
>> Will: Perfect.
Name and score.
Well yeah exactly, well,
parameters of name and score, right?
Arguments are the ones that we refer
to when we execute the function,
the actual values we
pass in as our arguments.
The placeholders,
the parameters receive the arguments.
So the name and score parameter is
excellent, there it is stored in memory.
Michael, next line of code,
tell me what the next line of code is.
>> Michael: We're declaring
another variable called newUser,
we're creating an object.
>> Will: So, Michael, to go inside
of a function, we have to do what?
For JavaScript to go inside of
a function's body, we have to do what?
>> Michael: You have
to invoke [INAUDIBLE].
>> Will: A-ha!
So this is a big tip.
When you're reading through your code,
never let yourself look at function
bodies, that means the innards of
a function, until you invoke it.
Otherwise, you are dealing in
hypothetical, because there is no newUser.
Because there is no name at this point,
there is no score.
So we never go inside of
a function until we execute it.
So the function store, there it is.
And what is our next line there for
Michael?
>> Michael: Within the function?
Is that what you're asking?
>> Will: Well we don't go inside
of a function until we call it.
So in fact if we never
called user creator,
we would never see any of that code.
JavaScript would never interpret
any of that code and that function.
So what therefore is actually
our next line of code.
Nick,after we've declared you the creator,
>> Nick: Then we would go to,
we'd declare the constant
user function store.
>> Will: Exactly.
Which is?
>> Nick: An object.
>> Will: An object, and
what other properties we immediately
store on that object, Nick?
>> Nick: The key name of
increment which is a function, and
then another of login
which is also a function.
>> Will: Perfect.
So our property increment and
login are both functions.
Okay.
Beautiful.
And now, note folks,
if you were to do what Michael was doing,
have a little sneaky
look inside user creator,
you'd see we're probably not gonna be
assigning any increment method to it.
But we are gonna create an object,
that somehow looks like it's
got some sort of connection.
We're not sure how or what, but
some sort of connection to user function
store which, look what it has on it.
An increment method.
All right, so Elliott,
we've saved user function store.
it's got increment login, we've saved
user creator, we've done our setup.
Now, Elliott, take me to the creation
of an actual user, user one.
>> Elliott: So
a new constant is created, User 1.
>> Will: Yep.
So, User 1 is going to be the return
value Elliott, of calling what function?
>> Elliott: User creator.
>> Will: User creator with inputs Phil and
four.
>> Elliott: Phil and four.
>> Will: Let's create
that execution context,
start talking me through it Elliott.
Into it we go and
in the local memory, what is the first
thing that we put in there, Elliott?
>> Elliott: The first argument name.
>> Will: The first argument which is?
>> Elliott: The first parameter.
>> Will: The first parameter which
is then assigned the argument what?
>> Elliott: Phil.
>> Will: "Phil", beautiful,
thank you Elliot.
And now, Terry, next line.
We're calling, we've passed in Phil's
name, and we're gonna pass in?
>> Terry: A score of 4.
>> Will: Score of 4, perfect.
Now we hit the body of the function.
We need to create our object.
But ideally,
we need our object to have a bond to
this user function store over here.
So that, when it gets returned out and we
wanna use functions that are not directly
on the object,
somehow we still have access to them.
We're not gonna see exactly how
the bond is made quite yet.
We're gonna see in a moment.
But for now, that right hand side always,
whatever we pass in,
it always returns an empty object.
So, what do we have stored in new user
at the point of the end of
that first line, David?
>> David: An empty object.
>> Will: A big old empty object.
But an empty object, let's even say right
now, an empty object with somehow a bond
to this function store,
user function store object.
We're not sure how, we just know that
somehow this built-in function object dot
create always returns an empty object.
But that empty object sorta has a kinda
connection to user function, but
we don't know how yet.
But we'll see how, all right and into that
object we are going to add properties.
Seth talk me through
adding the properties.
>> Seth: A property called name contains
the value of the name variable.
>> Will: Name parameter
>> Seth: Parameter.
>> Will: Perfect.
>> Seth: And a score property
that contains the value of score,
which is four.
>> Will: Perfect, and
do we add an increment function?
I do not see it.
But there's out object.
Seth, how do I get it out into user one?
>> Seth: Return it.
>> Will: I return it out into User 1,
into User 1.
There it is.
Out comes the object.
Now note people, we return out new user.
Well I prefer to say,
this is what Jarvis Word does.
It goes, return newUser and
it says, what is newUser.
It goes and looks in memory.
It finds the object.
We return now the object that is
currently designated as newUser.
We don't return out its name.
We just return out,
return use, is this object.
Return out the object.
Give it a new global label.
Never, I don't like even like
the verbalization return new user,
it implies somehow that new
user comes out as well,
no no, just the value of new user,
which is the object.
Return out the value of the new user,
which is the object in to the global
constant User 1,
where we have name is Phil and score is 4.
And still, this bond,
somehow up to userFunctionStore.
We don't know yet how,
but still, it's there.
And folk, this is stuff we've seen before,
to our audience online, in hard parts.
But this foundation is gonna give us
access to all the complexity in to come.
All right, so there we go User 1.
We have our object.
It has a bond to User function, so
we're not sure how, but it has a bond.
By analogy, Susie, User 2 just by analogy,
User 2 would have what?
In it, Susie.
>> Susie: The Julia?.
>> Will: We have a property of
an object with a property name,
which would be Julia.
And then, David.
>> David: A score of five.
>> Will: Score of five,
and a hidden bond up
to,
>> Will: User function store.
We're not sure how, but
it's going up there.